# Understanding the OWASP® Top 10 Security Threats (SKF100)

[Link](https://trainingportal.linuxfoundation.org/learn/course/owasp-top-10-security-threats-skf100/course-introduction/course-information)

<details>
<summary>Q1. What is OWASP?</summary>

OWASP is a renowned non-profit organization that aims to enhance the security of web applications.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Q2. What is OWASP® Top 10?</summary>

OWASP® Top 10 is a periodically updated list of the most critical security risks to web applications.

- **A01:2021** - Broken Access Control
- **A02:2021** - Cryptographic Failures
- **A03:2021** - Injection
- **A04:2021** - Insecure Design
- **A05:2021** - Security Misconfiguration
- **A06:2021** - Vulnerable and Outdated Components
- **A07:2021** - Identification and Authentication Failures
- **A08:2021** - Software and Data Integrity Failures
- **A09:2021** - Security Logging and Monitoring Failures
- **A10:2021** - Server-Side Request Forgery

Read more here:

- [OWASP Top Ten Project](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [OWASP Top Ten GitHub Repository](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-top-ten/blob/master/index.md)

</details>

<details>
<summary>Q3. What is Web Application Security?</summary>

- Web application security is crucial to prevent data breaches, financial loss, reputational damage, and legal liabilities.
- Protecting sensitive information such as personal, financial, and confidential data is a key reason for web application security.
- Compliance with regulatory standards like GDPR, PCI DSS, and HIPAA is essential to avoid penalties and legal consequences.
- Effective security measures help safeguard user privacy and ensure the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of web applications.
- Investing in robust security measures fosters trust and protects valuable assets in the digital landscape.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Q4. What is CIA Triad?</summary>

| Principle       | Description                                                                                  |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Confidentiality | Ensuring that information is accessible only to those authorized to access it.               |
| Integrity       | Safeguarding the accuracy and completeness of information and processing methods.            |
| Availability    | Ensuring that authorized users have timely and reliable access to information and resources. |

</details>

</details>

<details>
<summary> Q5. What is access control? </summary>

- Access Control (or Authorization) is the process of granting or denying specific requests
  from a user, program, or process.
- Access control also involves the act of granting and revoking those privileges.

</details>

<details>
<summary> Q6. What is the difference between Authentication and Authorization? </summary>

- It should be noted that authorization (verifying access to specific features or resources) is not equivalent to authentication (verifying identity).
- Authorization may be defined as "the process of verifying that a requested action or service is approved for a specific entity" (NIST).
- A user who has been authenticated (perhaps by providing a username and password) is often not authorized to access every resource and perform every action that is technically possible through a system

</details>

<details>
<summary>  Q7. What are the types of Access control? </summary>

- Discretionary Access Control (DAC) is a means of restricting access to objects (e.g., files, data entities) based on the identity and need-to-know of subjects (e.g., users, processes) and/or groups to which the object belongs.
- Mandatory Access Control (MAC) is a means of restricting access to system resources based on the sensitivity (as represented by a label) of the information contained in the system resource and the formal authorization (i.e., clearance) of users to access information of such sensitivity.
- Role Based Access Control (RBAC) is a model for controlling access to resources where permitted actions on resources are identified with roles rather than with individual subject identities.
- Attribute Based Access Control (ABAC) will grant or deny user requests based on arbitrary attributes of the user and arbitrary attributes of the object, and environment conditions that may be globally recognized and more relevant to the policies at hand.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Q8. What is broken access control?</summary>

- Broken access controls are a critical security risk in web applications.
- Access controls determine which users can access, modify, or delete specific resources.
- Improperly implemented access controls can be exploited by attackers.
- Attackers can gain unauthorized access to sensitive data and functionality.
- Overview of different types of broken access controls in web application security.
- Real-world examples of broken access controls.

Types of Broken access controls include

- Insecure Direct Object References (IDOR)
- Insecure Session Management
- Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
- Security Misconfiguration

</details>
